wmmrwrmmmmwinurirVn3 iTibikBrmi au oil N's mMMSWffl&e.Vol. II. Per Copy, 5 Cents.HONOLULU, MAY 12, 1900.Per Year, $3.00. No 34.President Dole has been congratulated since the arrivalof the Australia on his appointment as theThe Territorial first Governor of the Territoiy of Hawaii,Qovernnor. by a very large number of the very bestand most influential people of the Territory.It is to be regretted that some of these congratulationscame from quarters that have been loud in their  of the Dole government. To the independent and  sycophancy is a horror. But without being sostigmatized, reserving the right of forcable criticism of thepast and serious and thoughtful comments upon the forecastof the future and the influence of his appointment upon theEolitical conditions of the Territory, which may or may note complimentary, the Weekly desires to congratulatePresident Dole from a personal standpoint upon his mostprobable appointment as the first Governor of the Territoryof Hawaii. It furthermore desires to congratulatethe  and eulogize him, irrespective of his official  as the first gentleman of the land a Hawaiian to beproud ot. As an old-school gentleman, in suavity of  in personal integrity, in sincerity of purpose, in highintellectuality, in all attributes which are requisite to themake-up of a manly man, ex-President Dole has no superioras a gentleman in Hawaii. Furthermore, except for certainlocal conditions, of which President McKinley was not  because these conditions were probably not  with the dignity and merit they deserved, ex-PresidentDole is most certainly the logical appointee for governor.But because of these unfortunate local conditions Mr.Dole's appointment as governor is, perhaps, the greatestmisfortune that could have beset the new Territory ofHawaii as it blooms into political existence under theStars and Stripes. But of this later when the news of thefull official confirmation of Mr. Dole's appointment as thefirst governor of Hawaii shall have been received. For theE resent it is the desire of the Weekly that if by any  there should be a "slip between the cup and the lip"that the ex-President should carry with him in his  from office this sincere and hearty tribute to his highpersonal qualities untrameled by severe comment oradverse criticism.It is rather premature to comment upon the appointmentsreported to have been made by PresidentRumored McKinley for the Territory of Hawaii, forAppointments, the report comes only as a rumor. TheAustralia brought the first news. Buteveryone waited for the Rio in the hope that W. O. Smithcould confirm something. When that longed for individualarrived he brought home with him only impressionsalthough he was in close touch with Judge Hartwell bywire until the hour of sailing. Even in regard to Mr, DoleMr. Smith said :-v"My impression is that Mr. Dole will be the Governor.No definite news reached me upon the subject before Isailed from San Francisco."In regard to the other offices Mr. Smith continued:"My impression is that Justice Frear will succeed to theJusticeship. Also, I believe, all the present Circuit Judgeswill probably be retained, with possibly the exception ofJudge Stanley, who is, unfortunately, an Englishman, andtherefore not a citizen of the United States. As for JudgePerry, my impression is that he will be a Justice on theSupreme Bench."Even in regard to the Federal offices Mr. Smith had thefollowing impressions :"Both Judge Estee and Judge Greene are spoken of inconnection with that office, and I am inclined to think thatEstee holds first place at present."Furthermore, Mr. Smith had favorable impressions  Customs Collector Stackable and PostmasterGeneral Oat. But it is very noticeable that Mr. Smith hadno impressions concerning Mr. Cooper for Secretary ofState. Why is this ? Or any impressions concerning theAttorney General, who also is an appointment of the As Mr. Smith has brought back only impressions concerning all these appointments the whole matter must stillbe considered in the realm of rumor and serious commentupom them must be delayed until next week.If M. M. Estee is appointed federal judge it certainlywill meet with universal approval. Although an unfortunatepolitician Mr. Estee is a learned lawyer and would make anable judge. His coming to Honolulu would certainly be avaluable acquisition to society and the profession.. U "Our NewExistence.In a little more than a month the Hawaiian Islands will beas firmly set in the American Union as the oldoriginal state of Massachusetts. The lawmaking the islands a Territory will be enforcedon June 14th and ever after, as long as thestarry banner waves, the people of these green isles of thePacihc will enjoy the rare privilege of a liberal constitution ,which gives to all Americans, Europeans and Polynesiansan equality of political rights. A gift like this does not fallfrom the skies. It has to be earned by sturdy and  effort. It was secured by the Americans by the  of bloodshed through the trials of fearful wars and ithas come down to the Americans and adopted Americansof these islands as a sort of heritage without price.  had its conception in the mind of the late S. N.Castle nearly sixty years ago. The germ grew slowly, asthe Kamehameha rule satisfied everybody, but still the needof a greater protection than the power of the Kamehamehascould give the people was felt. It was twenty-five yearsafter the theory was evolved that the practical agitation ofannexation was begun by Dr. McGrew, and it came about.feH. .todiA